Overview
Identity document fraud is changing quickly. Modern attackers can combine high-quality document templates, generative AI editing tools, physical print-and-capture workflows, and presentation attacks to create forgeries that do not look like the simple digital manipulations found in many existing benchmarks.

The FREUID Challenge 2026 asks participants to detect fraudulent identity documents in this more realistic threat setting. The competition is based on the FREUID dataset, a proprietary collection of high-fidelity bona-fide and fraudulent documents contributed by the Microblink Fraud Lab. The dataset is designed to expose failure modes that are often hidden by saturated metrics on purely digital datasets.

Start

2 months ago
Close

4 days to go
Description
Participants will train models to distinguish bona-fide identity documents from fraudulent ones. Fraud examples may include:

physical manipulations;
GenAI-driven multimodal edits created with accessible text-and-image tools;
print-and-capture forgeries that close the "analog hole" and suppress many fragile digital artifacts
The challenge deliberately emphasizes document types, scripts, layouts and languages that are under-represented in existing public benchmarks. Strong solutions should therefore generalize across document domains rather than overfit to a narrow set of visual artifacts.

Top-performing teams will be invited to present their methods at IJCAI-ECAI 2026 in Bremen, Germany.

Why This Matters
Identity fraud is increasing in frequency and sophistication. Existing fraud detection benchmarks have helped the field, but many are now saturated or focused on artifacts that do not survive realistic capture pipelines. FREUID targets three open problems:

Cross-domain generalization: building models that remain accurate on under-represented document types and layouts.
Physical vs. digital artifacts: moving beyond GenAI pixel noise toward semantic, structural and physical inconsistencies.
Anti-fragility in vision models: developing detectors that adapt to evolving fraud strategies instead of memorizing known attack traces.
Your Task
For each identity document image in the test set, submit a single real-valued score representing the probability or confidence that the document is fraudulent.

Higher scores should indicate a higher likelihood of fraud:

0 label: bona-fide / genuine document
1 label: attack / fraudulent document
The public leaderboard is computed on a validation subset. Final rankings will be computed on a private held-out test set.

Code Requirements
To support reproducible research, prize-eligible teams must submit:

prediction files through Kaggle;
source code used to train and run the submitted model under an OSI-approved open-source license in a public git repository;
a short technical report (PDF);
a runnable Docker container that organizers can execute in a no-network sandbox;
exactly one reply on the pinned Kaggle discussion thread by July 15, 2026, 23:59 AoE — the same deadline as the final Kaggle submission.
Teams that do not provide a complete reproducibility package by that deadline will not be eligible for prizes or for the live showdown invitation at IJCAI-ECAI 2026, regardless of leaderboard rank.

Templates (Docker starter kit, report skeleton, reply template): https://freuid2026.microblink.com/reproducibility.html

Code freeze (July 13, 2026)
Private test images are released ~2 days before the final submission deadline. Your training code, model weights, and inference pipeline must already live in a public repository. No separate registration post is required.

Allowed after July 13: run inference on private test images with the same weights; update private-row predictions in your Kaggle CSV; adjust documentation, Docker packaging, and inference orchestration if weights are unchanged.

Not allowed after July 13: new training, fine-tuning, or weight, architecture, checkpoint, or hyperparameter changes; self-supervised or unsupervised updates using any test images; swapping checkpoints.

Organizers audit git commit history after private test release. Violations may forfeit prize eligibility.

Docker sandbox (summary)
Organizers mount flat test images only at /data/ (no CSV inside the container). Your entrypoint writes /submissions/submission.csv:

id,label
3f49e6921f3f4b10910738f7e9b476f3,0.0123
Row id = image filename without extension.
label = fraud score (higher = more fraudulent; same semantics as Kaggle score).
Constraints: --network none; all weights in the image; no writes outside /submissions/.

We verify reproduced predictions against your selected Kaggle submission before confirming final rankings and prizes.

Evaluation
Submissions are evaluated with the FREUID Score, a combined metric that uses both the full detection error trade-off curve and a production-relevant operating point.

The score combines:

AuDET: Area under the Detection Error Trade-off curve. This measures the trade-off between false accepts and false rejects across all decision thresholds.
APCER @ 1% BPCER: Attack Presentation Classification Error Rate measured at a fixed 1% Bona-Fide Presentation Classification Error Rate. This captures performance at a strict false-alarm operating point.
Both components are bounded in [0, 1], where lower is better. The final FREUID Score converts each component to a "goodness" score and takes their harmonic mean:

g_audet = 1 - AuDET
g_apcer = 1 - APCER@1%BPCER
FREUID  = 1 - 2 * g_audet * g_apcer / (g_audet + g_apcer)
The combined score is also bounded in [0, 1], and lower is better.

This combination rewards methods that perform well both globally and at the strict operating point. A model that performs well on the overall curve but fails at 1% BPCER will be penalized.

Submission Format
For every id in the test set, submit one numeric fraud score. Higher values mean the document is more likely to be fraudulent.

The submission file should contain a header and use the following format:

id,label
000001,0.0123
000002,0.8741
000003,0.4310
Metric Direction
The leaderboard metric is minimized:

lower FREUID Score = better ranking
Prizes
The competition has a $6,000 USD prize pool sponsored by Microblink.

1st place: $3,000
2nd place: $2,000
3rd place: $1,000
Top-performing teams will also be invited to present their solutions at the live showdown during IJCAI-ECAI 2026 in Bremen. Conference entries will be provided to top performers for the workshops / competitions part of the conference, subject to organizer confirmation.

Note: All prize winners need to adhere to the same requirements and restrictions regarding licensing, reproducibility, and documentation to which the winning Submission is subject (see Rules). Leaderboard prize winners who do not meet the open source requirements will also be removed from the leaderboard.